# Project04
Project 4 for the Tec de Monterrey Data Analysis Bootcamp, Team 01

Re-exploring the topic of our first project, we decided to apply more sophisticated tools to develop models that could predict success for a musical project today, considering the vast amounts of data generated by musical streaming and traditional data-collection means, in order to create valuable information for industry executives, musicians, marketing teams and producers.

Main_models.ipynb, contained in the Spotify analysis directory, is the main file. It imports dependencies, creates dataframes, prepares data and executes models, such as Neural Networks, SVC and Random Forests in order to create models that aid in the prediction of the success of musical releases, by comparing popularity variables, such as the popularity extracted with the Spotify API, number of followers or number of streams against features such as song attributes, like danceability, tempo or energy, as well as music industry metrics, such as record certifications, grammy awards and billboard charts positioning.

The Spotify analysis directory, which contains both the Main_models.ipynb file and the .sqlite files is at the same level as the Resources directory, which contains the original CSVs used for analysis, as well as the CSVs created by merging with Pandas. The Tests directory, contains various .ipynb files, in which different iterations of machine learning models are recorded, as a way to display how we got to our final results, as well as having specific files: Artist_week_merge.ipynb and attributes_billboard_merge.ipynb, where we merged CSVs in order to create the .sqlite files.

Main research questions
- How are stream numbers related to other success metrics, such as certifications and chart positioning.
- How do song attributes relate to musical success?
- Which labels produce more successful releases?
- Does featuring with another artist raise the success probabilities?

Contributions:
- Data Analysis Bootcamp Classes
- https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.html
- https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/keras
- https://scikit-learn.org/stable/index.html
- https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/